README.md, before:

# Overview

Qemu tracer - a tracer based on [qemu](https://github.com/qemu/qemu)
project. It executes a binary executable and saves trace data using
[Protocol Buffer](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/)
format. The contents of the trace data is defined in
[bap-traces](https://github.com/BinaryAnalysisPlatform/bap-traces)
project.

# Installing released binaries

If you don't want to mess with the source and building, then you can just 
dowload a tarball with prebuilt binaries. Look at the latest release and 
it might happen, that we have built binaries for your linux distribution,
if it is not the case, then create an issue, and we will build it for you.

Let's pretend, that you're using Ubuntu Trusty, and install it. First 
download it with your favorite downloader:

```
wget https://github.com/BinaryAnalysisPlatform/qemu/releases/download/v2.0.0-tracewrap-alpha/qemu-tracewrap-ubuntu-14.04.4-LTS.tgz
```

Install it in the specified prefix with a command like `tar -C <prefix> -xf qemu-tracewrap-ubuntu-14.04.4-LTS.tgz`, e.g., 
to install in your home directory:
```
tar -C $HOME -xf qemu-tracewrap-ubuntu-14.04.4-LTS.tgz
```



# Build

## Preparation

Note: the instructions assume that you're using Ubuntu, but it
may work on other systems, that uses apt-get.

Before building the qemu-tracewrap, you need to install the following packages:
   * qemu build dependencies
   * autoconf, libtool, protobuf-c-compiler
   * [piqi library](http://piqi.org/doc/ocaml)

To install qemu build dependencies, use the following command

```bash
$ sudo apt-get --no-install-recommends -y build-dep qemu
```

To install autoconf, libtool, protobuf-c-compiler, use the
following command

```bash
$ sudo apt-get install autoconf libtool protobuf-c-compiler
```

To install [piqi library](http://piqi.org/doc/ocaml) with
[opam](https://opam.ocaml.org/doc/Install.html), use the following command
```bash
$ opam install piqi
```

## Building

Download [bap-traces](https://github.com/BinaryAnalysisPlatform/bap-traces) with
following command

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/BinaryAnalysisPlatform/bap-traces.git
```

Download qemu tracer with following command

```bash
$ git clone git@github.com:BinaryAnalysisPlatform/qemu.git -b tracewrap
```

Change folder to qemu and build tracer with command
```bash
$ ./configure --prefix=$HOME --with-tracewrap=`realpath ../bap-frames` \
--extra-ldflags=-Lprotobuf --target-list="arm-linux-user i386-linux-user \
x86_64-linux-user mips-linux-user"
$ make -C protobuf
$ make
$ make install
```

# Usage

To run executable `exec` and to save the trace data to `exec.trace`, use

```bash
$ qemu-arm -tracefile exec.trace exec # trace ARM target executable
$ qemu-i386 -tracefile exec.trace exec # trace X86 target executable
$ qemu-x86_64 -tracefile exec.trace exec # trace X86-64 target executable
$ qemu-mips -tracefile exec.trace exec # trace MIPS target executable
```

Hints: use option -L to set the elf interpreter prefix to 'path'. Use
[fetchlibs.sh](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/BinaryAnalysisPlatform/bap-traces/master/test/fetchlibs.sh)
to download arm and x86 libraries.

# Notes
  Only ARM, X86, X86-64, MIPS targets are supported in this branch.

Commit message:

fix issues with BFD arches (#7)
It came out that BFD architectures in `qemu/dis/bfd.h` folder is 9 years older,
than architectures in the `bap-frames/libtrace`, and the latter is 14
years older than the latest BFD release. In fact, the BFD architectures
are not stable, and numbers for them are allocated at each configuration
and depends on the configuration options. The choice to rely on them was
a bad decision. The better approach would be to use our own wired format
for arches, specified in protobuf or something like this. But so far,
we're relying on piqi, that doesn't have (a) normal enums with fixed
values, (b) normal extension mechanism. So we will still rely on the old
way of specifying architectures.

Now we will use architectures from `frames/libtrace/` library, to
ensure, that everyone has the same constants. To reduce confusion with
BFD we've moved all definitions to the `frames` namespace (i.e.,
`s/bfd_/frames_`).

This PR also fixes numerous issues with the build system:

1. protobuf now is built as a part of `all` target, no need to
   do `make -C protobuf`
2. protobuf will generate `librotoframes` library, instead of libtrace
   that nameclashed with at least two libraries: trace library from the
   qemu itself and libtrace from the bap-frames
3. configure script will properly expand paths
4. protobuf target will now depend on the `piqi` file in the frames
   library and if the latter is changed, the library will be regenerated
   and recompiled, as well as all dependencies.

README.md, after:

# Overview

Qemu tracer - a tracer based on [qemu](https://github.com/qemu/qemu)
project. It executes a binary executable and saves trace data using
[Protocol Buffer](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/)
format. The contents of the trace data is defined in
[bap-traces](https://github.com/BinaryAnalysisPlatform/bap-traces)
project.

# Installing released binaries

If you don't want to mess with the source and building, then you can just
dowload a tarball with prebuilt binaries. Look at the latest release and
it might happen, that we have built binaries for your linux distribution,
if it is not the case, then create an issue, and we will build it for you.

Let's pretend, that you're using Ubuntu Trusty, and install it. First
download it with your favorite downloader:

```
wget https://github.com/BinaryAnalysisPlatform/qemu/releases/download/v2.0.0-tracewrap-alpha/qemu-tracewrap-ubuntu-14.04.4-LTS.tgz
```

Install it in the specified prefix with a command like `tar -C <prefix> -xf qemu-tracewrap-ubuntu-14.04.4-LTS.tgz`, e.g.,
to install in your home directory:
```
tar -C $HOME -xf qemu-tracewrap-ubuntu-14.04.4-LTS.tgz
```



# Build

## Preparation

Note: the instructions assume that you're using Ubuntu, but it
may work on other systems, that uses apt-get.

Before building the qemu-tracewrap, you need to install the following packages:
   * qemu build dependencies
   * autoconf, libtool, protobuf-c-compiler
   * [piqi library](http://piqi.org/doc/ocaml)

To install qemu build dependencies, use the following command

```bash
$ sudo apt-get --no-install-recommends -y build-dep qemu
```

To install autoconf, libtool, protobuf-c-compiler, use the
following command

```bash
$ sudo apt-get install autoconf libtool protobuf-c-compiler
```

To install [piqi library](http://piqi.org/doc/ocaml) with
[opam](https://opam.ocaml.org/doc/Install.html), use the following command
```bash
$ opam install piqi
```

## Building

Download [bap-frames](https://github.com/BinaryAnalysisPlatform/bap-frames) with
following command

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/BinaryAnalysisPlatform/bap-frames.git
```

Download qemu tracer with following command

```bash
$ git clone git@github.com:BinaryAnalysisPlatform/qemu.git
```

Change folder to qemu and build tracer:
```bash
$ cd qemu
$ ./configure --prefix=$HOME --with-tracewrap=../bap-frames --target-list="`echo {arm,i386,x86_64,mips}-linux-user`"
$ make
$ make install
```

# Usage

To run executable `exec` compiled for `arch`, use `qemu-arch exec` command, e.g.,
`qemu-x86_64 /bin/ls`. It will dump the trace into `ls.frames` file. You can configure
the filename with `-tracefile` option, e.g., `qemu-arm -tracefile arm.ls.frames ls`


Hints: use option -L to set the elf interpreter prefix to 'path'. Use
[fetchlibs.sh](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/BinaryAnalysisPlatform/bap-frames/master/test/fetchlibs.sh)
to download arm and x86 libraries.

# Notes
  Only ARM, X86, X86-64, MIPS targets are supported in this branch.
